## Death of the Hero Developer

Here we go, where to start with this?

To set the stage a bit for those not in a technical field, I'll quote this great write up from [Hackernoon](https://hackernoon.com/thoughts-on-software-development-heroes-5ec656c2e31a), "In software development, 'hero' is the name given to those individuals who are always there. Ready to save the day." Sounds great, right? In reality, a lot of the time these types of developers are great for short term, "We need this fixed NOW!" issues, but usually not for long term, real, fixes. These types of developers also tend to have a lot of domain knowledge in a certain area which can lead to them being the go-to person for a lot of things which tends to lead to issues if that developer is out of office, or leaves altogether.

Like it or not, I've been that type of developer for the past two years or so at my current job. It's not something that happens between one day and another, rather it happens over a period of time. I've always been one to dive in and try to learn as much as possible of something and that by itself isn't a bad thing, but the ego it can create is the real problem. I wasn't really proud of being able to say that I was the only one that knew all of the ins and outs of a particular application, yet I was always hesitant to write documentation or let others do work within that application, red flag number one. Again, while not a bad trait in itself, I'm someone that jumps at the chance to jump into an issue to find a solution, but I'd try to take on those issues while continuing more other work meaning neither got the real attention each needed, red flag number two. The final nail in the coffin that really clued me into the fact that my behavior was causing some issues was that I'd go home frustrated many days because others that I worked with either didn't do the work at my pace, or didn't do things how I'd do them, red flag number three.

Previous to being given my own development team as a technical lead, I didn't see much of an issue with any of the red flags above. In my head, I'd come in and do my work, throw my hat into the ring when immediate concerns came up regardless of how that affected my other work and projects, and then go home at the end of the day when things were done. I didn't see the big picture and how my attitude towards work was affecting the things outside of my little bubble of work. Yeah, I put out good work that's still running strong today, but looking back, that code is some of the worst code I've seen and it's hard for me to navigate through it now. I was so stuck in my ways of, "I need to figure this out on my own" that I made things a lot harder than they really needed to be, and there's a ton of unnecessary complexity in that code. This also means that since I'm not supporting a lot of that code, the developers that look at it struggle to understand what's going on and rely on me for information, reducing their productivity since a lot of them are in a different timezone and have to wait for me to be available.

That leads me to today, and the death of the hero developer I was. I've went back and documented a ton of the old code that I wrote, along with some thoughts about why things are that way and where to go for some guidance. In having my own development team, I've had to step back and make some bigger picture decisions instead of diving in immediately and dealing with any consequences later. It's taken me a while to come to terms with the fact that the developers on my team take longer than I do to develop certain things, but that's mostly because they're learning the systems that I've known for years at this point. I've had to work on making sure that I'm empowering my team with the skills and knowledge that they need instead of telling them exactly how to do something because I want them to become better developers, not just copy some code from a tutorial or do it just because I said so. I've had to take a step back from a lot of my previous day to day activities, and while I still do a good bit of development work myself, I've learned to delegate out more work so I'm not stressed out all of the time. There are still things that require someone to drop everything and figure it out, and I'm happy to be that person when needed, but a goal of mine is to make sure that once the issue has been figured out, that there's a good solution in place and the entire process is documented so we don't make similar mistakes in the future.

Honestly, I'm not sad about the death of the hero developer in me. The work that the hero developer did has led me to where I am today, but looking back on that history, that developer created a huge void in the working knowledge of the greater group that I'm now working to fix for the future. RIP hero developer, but the show must go on.
