## Life at 26

It's taken me a while to decide whether I wanted to post this, but here it goes anyway. People that have known me for a long time know me as the "smart kid" that always excelled in school but that's not really the whole story. It's true that in high school I could get by without much effort and that things seemed to come naturally to me but beyond schoolwork I really struggled. I wasn't ever the person that had many friends nor was a very social. I had a small group of people who I interacted with outside of school and that group got a lot smaller once I went off to college.

For a long time I struggled once I was separated from that small group of friends. I coasted through my first year of college doing the bare minimum I needed to keep up. I started to descend into a constant state of depression, ignoring school as much as I could while keeping that status quo of scraping by. There were times that I had given up and wanted to drop out of school because I didn't see the point. There were times that I didn't want to get up in the morning because I couldn't find the motivation to do anything, I tried to put off my responsibilities as long as I could. I guess where I'm going with this is that I was in a really bad place while trying my best to hide it to the outside world. Eventually I got to the point to where I couldn't sleep, didn't want to eat, couldn't find enjoyment in anything that I liked, etc. and I knew I had to get help which was a huge step for someone who usually did everything solo.

Part of what got me to that decision is that I had support from my friends and family once they knew what was going on which is huge. I was lucky that I had that support structure when there are many that don't. I was also lucky in that I had found a part-time job with a local startup and I was very interested in the work we were doing to help people. This was really what drove me to put everything I had into my last year of college and why I'm where I'm at today. There are still days and even weeks where I'll get in a rut but everyone has similar ups and downs, even if they never show it to the world.

In the years since I graduated, I joined a great company that takes care of its employees and I love what I do. Where I'm at has allowed me to jump-start my career because they believed in what I could do instead of only looking at my GPA or other statistics on my transcript. I'm extremely lucky that I landed in a place that would listen to my story and where I can show my passion for my work. It's all of this that allowed me to discontinue medication and develop mechanisms for dealing with my mental health in a positive way.  

Of course, I wouldn't be where I am today without Taylor and Luna, both of whom have had a huge impact on my life and mental wellbeing. Taylor pushes me to do the things that she knows I want to do but I'd waffle back and forth over because of my anxiety and she's pushed me outside of my comfort zone more often than I'd like for my own good. Even though Luna is technically Taylor's therapy dog, she's also helped me a lot as well, especially on the bad days that come up occasionally.

I guess my whole point of posting this is for any of you out there that feel like you're alone, I want you to know that you aren't. I've been in a similar position, had similar thoughts. Please get help if you need it, mental illness isn't something to be embarrassed about and I can promise you that getting help doesn't make you any less of a person. It takes a lot of strength in our culture to admit there's a problem and that you need help and you should be proud of the fact that you can realize and admit that to yourself. It took me almost 4 years to do it, but it's better late than never. Even if I haven't talked to you in a while, or at all, I'll be an open ear if you need it, shoot me an email and we'll chat.